# project-euler
These are my Haskell solutions to some of the Project Euler problems. This project is mostly for practice using github, as well as serving as a place to store my solutions. I will add more, along with some commentary, as I have time to do so. The problems can be found at https://projecteuler.net.

Problem 1:

If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23.
Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.

```
p1 = sum [x | x <- [1..999], x `mod` 3 == 0 || x `mod` 5 == 0]
```

Problem 2:

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...
By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

```
fib2 :: Int -> Integer
fib2 = (map fib [0 ..] !!) 
    where 
        fib 0 = 0
        fib 1 = 1
        fib n = fib2 (n-2) + fib2 (n-1)

[(x,z) | x <- [0..50], let z = fib2 x, z <= 4000000, z `mod` 2 == 0]
x = 33
p2 = sum [z | x <- [0..33], let z = fib2 x, z <= 4000000, z `mod` 2 == 0]
```
Problem 3:

The prime factors of 13195 are 5, 7, 13 and 29.
What is the largest prime factor of the number 600851475143 ?

Problem 4:

A palindromic number reads the same both ways. The largest palindrome made from the product of two 2-digit numbers is 9009 = 91 × 99.
Find the largest palindrome made from the product of two 3-digit numbers.

```
middle [] = []
middle (x:[]) = []
middle (x:xs) = tail $ init (x:xs) 

isPalindrome [] = True
isPalindrome (xs) = (head xs == last xs) && isPalindrome (middle xs)

p4 = maximum [z | x <- [100..999], y <- [100..999], let z = x * y, (isPalindrome $ show z) == True]
```
Problem 5:

2520 is the smallest number that can be divided by each of the numbers from 1 to 10 without any remainder.
What is the smallest positive number that is evenly divisible by all of the numbers from 1 to 20?
```
p5 = foldr1 lcm [1..20]
```

This one took me a little to figure out, but can be easily seen by these type definitions:
```
foldr  :: (a -> b -> b) -> b -> [a] -> b
foldr1 :: (a -> a -> a) ->      [a] -> a

lcm :: Integral a => a -> a -> a
```
Problem 6:

The sum of the squares of the first ten natural numbers is,
```
12 + 22 + ... + 102 = 385
```
The square of the sum of the first ten natural numbers is,
```
(1 + 2 + ... + 10)2 = 552 = 3025
```
Hence the difference between the sum of the squares of the first ten natural numbers and the square of the sum is 3025 − 385 = 2640.
Find the difference between the sum of the squares of the first one hundred natural numbers and the square of the sum.

```
x = (sum [1..100]) ^ 2
y = sum [x^2 | x <- [1..100]]
p6 = x - y
```
